>> Steve Kinney: So all of a sudden,
as long as you have that contract, and
if you do the work for that contract and
you can figure out a way to generate it.
You can have at least parts of these
entire contracts handled for you, right?
There are some ways to do
it on the server as well.
So one really kind of easy way is
there is this tool called, again,
the names are everything you need.
There's one called Open API
express validator, right?
It's like an SEO game at some point,
right?
You just name it the most obvious
thing in the world, and well,
you can install it as middleware
in your express application.
I would just probably
do it in development.
I guess you could do it, if you have
good error handling in production.
And then should you
break your own contract?
You can get alerted to it, right?
And using it is incredibly easy as well.
So on the front end,
generate a client automatically.
You know it's type safe based
on the contract, right?
You don't have to do all this odd stuff.
Again, you need to have the contract,
a lot of things you might
not be starting there.
So we've got the tools on the low level,
we've got the tools on the high level.
Jumping back over to the server.
So we can grab this OpenAPIValidator,
>> Steve Kinney: And
all that we really that seems
like too much to import.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool all we can do,
all we have to do here is
install it as middleware.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we point it to what it should do.
Validate the requests and responses.
Here we would actually want the dot Json.
And now you can set things to like
validate whether it should throw errors,
where should log issues, right?
If your express API is
violating the contract,
your server will know and
you can fix the issue, right?
Right, or, you can theoretically take
those same types that you generated and
use it with the middleware.
We'll talk about how to create
the Zod schemas based out of that.
You have lots of options, right?
Which one you choose to use will work for
you.
This one will at least let you know
that bad things are happening, right?
You can also, again, say,
play the same game that we played with our
middleware and the Zod schemas, right?
You can create all the types, and
then you will get type notifications
if you are not doing the right thing.
How you go about this depends, but
both sides can use the same contract and
have the same safety guarantees and
know everything.
It just becomes an infrastructure
game at this point.
And just to show you how easy it
is to generate these Zod schemas,
let's take a look at that as well.
This is a really great library and
I'm gonna go to the page and
visit it with you because
it's totally worth it.
So this is a library, it does not have
a name that explains exactly what it does.
But it will actually, let's try this.
Yeah, the sidebar once again tells
you everything you need to know.
We're gonna use it to generate
the Zod types because, as you can see,
it can generate a react query client for
you, a used SWR client.
It takes the OpenAPI schema and
can spit out lots of different things.
You use Axios, great,
you can get an Axios client, right?
You got the fetch one,
which we saw in that other library.
You all know what mock service worker is?
Yeah, so mock service worker is
effectively service workers can hijack
the network, request coming in and out.
And it's a way that, let's say,
you've agreed on the API contract, but
the backend team is not done yet, right?
It will stub out all of the stuff
according to the API contract,
you can generate fake API responses,
do all the stuff, right?
And then when the API is ready,
you remove that layer.
Or again,
maybe you're just doing tests, right?
You have all that in place as well.
Angular, all of a sudden,
it has kinda built in support for
pretty much everything.
We're going to look at the ability
to generate the Zod types and
OpenAPI schema.
But as you can see,
depending on what your flavor is,
there are many things you can do.
Does take a little bit of configuration,
but as you can see, not too much.
Tell me, this is actually
already in the code base, so
that's why we're looking in here.
You can look in my editor too.
Tell me where the input file is,
again, and you could clone this down.
I think even for
that Typescript one that we did earlier,
you can actually point it at a URL, right?
So as long as it's hosted somewhere and
there are a bunch of different services
for just like CDNs for Git repos.
You can just pull it down from
whatever main is all the time.
I literally have it as like
a post install for npm, right?
Anytime you run npm install or something,
we pull down the latest specs so
I can see if something broke.
But we have a backwards compatible API, so
I know that nothing
broke most of the time.
So here we can just say,
OK, I wanna output Zod.
You can either do split or one big file.
Which one you choose is probably
dependent on how big your code base is.
Obviously, if it's big, split it, so you
can do tree shaking and code splitting.
If it's small, for our cases,
we'll keep it single.
So then, what you're able to do,
I'm gonna grab this just so
I can remember,
is we can go in here, back into my client.
And you can say,
I've got the same config right here.
And then we can run that,
>> Steve Kinney: And
you can see it did create
a new file called schemas.ts,
where import Zod, and
based on that OpenAPI contract,
generated all of my Zod schemas for
me, right?
Again, great,
if you have an OpenAPI spec, obviously,
a little bit harder to navigate if
you don't, but like super useful.
And again,
you can start in either direction, right?
Sometimes you might have it.
You can also, again,
create an open API schema through using
all the Zod Schemas that you made.
But obviously,
there's a little bit more ceremony and
work that's gonna take someone on your
team a few days, not weeks or months, but
more time than anyone wants
to spend right now doing it.
But yeah, you can begin to pull
those things together as well, and
there's validators or so on and so forth.
But yeah, you can create the schemas,
you can create clients.
You can do all those things
once you have this and
then you're no longer doing
that trust game, right?
You know that there is a contract.
And yes, I am on call for a reason,
because somebody will make a boo-boo,
you'll find out ways in which your
CICD process didn't catch something.
The goal is to get, yeah, I would love
to tell you we can get to 100%, right?
We can probably get to 99 point,
some egregious number of 9s, and
that is probably good enough for
us in a lot of cases.
But there will always be ways to slip
through and mistakes are gonna be made.
But again, the more tooling that you use,
the less likely that's going to happen,
right?
It is, we saw even when we're manually
putting the Zod types in there ourselves,
or Zod schemas, if we missed one,
it was still any or unknown, right?
Here we are, then at least.
Again, we have a contract,
we can run it on both the server and
we can run it on the client as well.
Things will break, we were talking
about this during one of the breaks,
there are still the problems become more
social than they become technical, right?
Which is, okay, has every team invested
enough to make sure that there's
one end-to-end suite
before anyone deploys.
Well, then you've got to have maybe a test
environment that is stable at all times,
the ability to spin up fresh users,
to get to a lot of cases.
Maybe you can't do all those things for
just because,
the amount of teams that would need
to figure it all out together.
It's just you can figure that stuff
on a 30 person company, we did.
I also worked at a 7,000 person company.
Turns out, those things are harder.
Getting 7,000 teams or not 7,000, but
100 teams to sign on to things is
a lot harder than getting 3
teams to sign on to things.
But depending on where you are,
you can always use those lower level
ones to at least ensure your walls.
Or if you can get everyone on
the same page with an API spec,
you can begin to generate stuff.
Which one of these approaches
that you take really
depends on the situation
you're dealing with right?
The smallest ones are probably
the easiest to start with, though, and
you can get some safety tomorrow.
These bigger ones are obviously going
to be the most stable and consistent.
And also, who doesn't love getting all
these schemas generated for them or
entire clients, right?
With some of these, you can just
generate if you use react react hooks or
svelte like runes or what have you, to be
able to do all these things, that's great.
Do that because you're not getting
paid more for doing it by hand,
like there's no such thing as an artisanal
Zod scheme being worth more than one
that is generated.
The generated one is
probably more accurate.